.TH  "auditbeat_selinux"  "8"  "22-03-08" "auditbeat" "SELinux Policy auditbeat"
.SH "NAME"
auditbeat_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the auditbeat processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the auditbeat processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The auditbeat processes execute with the auditbeat_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep auditbeat_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The auditbeat_t SELinux type can be entered via the \fBauditbeat_exec_t\fP file type.

The default entrypoint paths for the auditbeat_t domain are the following:

/usr/bin/auditbeat, /usr/share/auditbeat/bin/auditbeat
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux auditbeat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their auditbeat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for auditbeat:

.EX
.B auditbeat_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a auditbeat_t
can be used to make the process type auditbeat_t permissive. SELinux does not deny access to permissive process types, but the AVC (SELinux denials) messages are still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  auditbeat policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run auditbeat with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow all domains to execute in fips_mode, you must turn on the fips_mode boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type auditbeat_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B beats_log_type


.br
.B beats_var_lib_type


.br
.B cluster_conf_t

	/etc/cluster(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pcsd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/cluster(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openais(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pengine(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/corosync(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pacemaker(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_run_t

	/var/run/crm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cman_.*
.br
	/var/run/rsctmp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/aisexec.*
.br
	/var/run/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pcsd-ruby.socket
.br
	/var/run/corosync-qnetd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/corosync-qdevice(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/corosync\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cpglockd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/rgmanager\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cluster/rgmanager\.sk
.br

.br
.B root_t

	/sysroot/ostree/deploy/.*-atomic/deploy(/.*)?
.br
	/
.br
	/initrd
.br

.br
.B tmp_t

	/sandbox(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp
.br
	/usr/tmp
.br
	/var/tmp
.br
	/var/tmp
.br
	/tmp-inst
.br
	/var/tmp-inst
.br
	/var/tmp/tmp-inst
.br
	/var/tmp/vi\.recover
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux auditbeat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their auditbeat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines the file context types for the auditbeat, if you wanted to
store files with these types in a diffent paths, you need to execute the semanage command to specify alternate labeling and then use restorecon to put the labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t auditbeat_unit_file_t '/srv/myauditbeat_content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/myauditbeat_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions to specify labels that match multiple files.

.I The following file types are defined for auditbeat:


.EX
.PP
.B auditbeat_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the auditbeat_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the auditbeat_t domain.

.br
.TP 5
Paths:
/usr/bin/auditbeat, /usr/share/auditbeat/bin/auditbeat

.EX
.PP
.B auditbeat_initrc_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the auditbeat_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the auditbeat_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B auditbeat_log_t
.EE

- Set files with the auditbeat_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as auditbeat log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B auditbeat_unit_file_t
.EE

- Set files with the auditbeat_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as auditbeat unit content.


.EX
.PP
.B auditbeat_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set files with the auditbeat_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the auditbeat files under the /var/lib directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), auditbeat(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8), setsebool(8)