.TH  "metricbeat_selinux"  "8"  "22-03-08" "metricbeat" "SELinux Policy metricbeat"
.SH "NAME"
metricbeat_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for the metricbeat processes
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Security-Enhanced Linux secures the metricbeat processes via flexible mandatory access control.

The metricbeat processes execute with the metricbeat_t SELinux type. You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fP command with the \fB\-Z\fP qualifier.

For example:

.B ps -eZ | grep metricbeat_t


.SH "ENTRYPOINTS"

The metricbeat_t SELinux type can be entered via the \fBmetricbeat_exec_t\fP file type.

The default entrypoint paths for the metricbeat_t domain are the following:

/usr/share/metricbeat/bin/metricbeat
.SH PROCESS TYPES
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system
.PP
You can see the context of a process using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBps\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files.
SELinux metricbeat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their metricbeat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP
The following process types are defined for metricbeat:

.EX
.B metricbeat_t
.EE
.PP
Note:
.B semanage permissive -a metricbeat_t
can be used to make the process type metricbeat_t permissive. SELinux does not deny access to permissive process types, but the AVC (SELinux denials) messages are still generated.

.SH BOOLEANS
SELinux policy is customizable based on least access required.  metricbeat policy is extremely flexible and has several booleans that allow you to manipulate the policy and run metricbeat with the tightest access possible.


.PP
If you want to allow all domains to execute in fips_mode, you must turn on the fips_mode boolean. Enabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P fips_mode 1

.EE

.PP
If you want to allow system to run with NIS, you must turn on the nis_enabled boolean. Disabled by default.

.EX
.B setsebool -P nis_enabled 1

.EE

.SH "MANAGED FILES"

The SELinux process type metricbeat_t can manage files labeled with the following file types.  The paths listed are the default paths for these file types.  Note the processes UID still need to have DAC permissions.

.br
.B beats_log_type


.br
.B beats_var_lib_type


.br
.B cluster_conf_t

	/etc/cluster(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_lib_t

	/var/lib/pcsd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/cluster(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/openais(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pengine(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/corosync(/.*)?
.br
	/usr/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/lib/pacemaker(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B cluster_var_run_t

	/var/run/crm(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/cman_.*
.br
	/var/run/rsctmp(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/aisexec.*
.br
	/var/run/heartbeat(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/pcsd-ruby.socket
.br
	/var/run/corosync-qnetd(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/corosync-qdevice(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/corosync\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cpglockd\.pid
.br
	/var/run/rgmanager\.pid
.br
	/var/run/cluster/rgmanager\.sk
.br

.br
.B krb5_host_rcache_t

	/var/tmp/krb5_0.rcache2
.br
	/var/cache/krb5rcache(/.*)?
.br
	/var/tmp/nfs_0
.br
	/var/tmp/DNS_25
.br
	/var/tmp/host_0
.br
	/var/tmp/imap_0
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_23
.br
	/var/tmp/HTTP_48
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_55
.br
	/var/tmp/ldap_487
.br
	/var/tmp/ldapmap1_0
.br

.br
.B logfile

	all log files
.br

.br
.B root_t

	/sysroot/ostree/deploy/.*-atomic/deploy(/.*)?
.br
	/
.br
	/initrd
.br

.br
.B systemd_passwd_var_run_t

	/var/run/systemd/ask-password(/.*)?
.br
	/var/run/systemd/ask-password-block(/.*)?
.br

.br
.B tmp_t

	/sandbox(/.*)?
.br
	/tmp
.br
	/usr/tmp
.br
	/var/tmp
.br
	/var/tmp
.br
	/tmp-inst
.br
	/var/tmp-inst
.br
	/var/tmp/tmp-inst
.br
	/var/tmp/vi\.recover
.br

.SH FILE CONTEXTS
SELinux requires files to have an extended attribute to define the file type.
.PP
You can see the context of a file using the \fB\-Z\fP option to \fBls\bP
.PP
Policy governs the access confined processes have to these files.
SELinux metricbeat policy is very flexible allowing users to setup their metricbeat processes in as secure a method as possible.
.PP

.PP
.B STANDARD FILE CONTEXT

SELinux defines the file context types for the metricbeat, if you wanted to
store files with these types in a diffent paths, you need to execute the semanage command to specify alternate labeling and then use restorecon to put the labels on disk.

.B semanage fcontext -a -t metricbeat_unit_file_t '/srv/mymetricbeat_content(/.*)?'
.br
.B restorecon -R -v /srv/mymetricbeat_content

Note: SELinux often uses regular expressions to specify labels that match multiple files.

.I The following file types are defined for metricbeat:


.EX
.PP
.B metricbeat_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the metricbeat_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the metricbeat_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B metricbeat_initrc_exec_t
.EE

- Set files with the metricbeat_initrc_exec_t type, if you want to transition an executable to the metricbeat_initrc_t domain.


.EX
.PP
.B metricbeat_log_t
.EE

- Set files with the metricbeat_log_t type, if you want to treat the data as metricbeat log data, usually stored under the /var/log directory.


.EX
.PP
.B metricbeat_unit_file_t
.EE

- Set files with the metricbeat_unit_file_t type, if you want to treat the files as metricbeat unit content.


.EX
.PP
.B metricbeat_var_lib_t
.EE

- Set files with the metricbeat_var_lib_t type, if you want to store the metricbeat files under the /var/lib directory.


.PP
Note: File context can be temporarily modified with the chcon command.  If you want to permanently change the file context you need to use the
.B semanage fcontext
command.  This will modify the SELinux labeling database.  You will need to use
.B restorecon
to apply the labels.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.B semanage fcontext
can also be used to manipulate default file context mappings.
.PP
.B semanage permissive
can also be used to manipulate whether or not a process type is permissive.
.PP
.B semanage module
can also be used to enable/disable/install/remove policy modules.

.B semanage boolean
can also be used to manipulate the booleans

.PP
.B system-config-selinux
is a GUI tool available to customize SELinux policy settings.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was auto-generated using
.B "sepolicy manpage".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
selinux(8), metricbeat(8), semanage(8), restorecon(8), chcon(1), sepolicy(8), setsebool(8)